This is testing on the 21st of June to see if this machine is working and this mic is working.
One, two, three.
This is now to see if mic this is working.
Three, two, one.
Testing one, two, three.
This is June the 21st, and we're in the Dean's conference room at the College of Veterinary Medicine, and we're going to check and be sure that both mics are working.
I have the honor of chatting with Dr. J.D.
McCrady.
Today we want to concentrate on his student experiences.
J.D., to begin with, to help anybody who would listen to this or read it in the future, describe where you grew up and where you lived, went to high school, what your family did, get us ready to get you coming to A&M.
Well, I was born in Beaumont, Texas in 1930 and my father was with Mobile Oil Company and my mother was a
and I had two brothers, one 18 months younger and one 14 years younger.
I went to school at South Park High School in Beaumont and finished high school in 48 and entered Texas A&M in the fall of 48.
As you look back on those years,
What was the reason or reasons that caused you to think about coming to Texas A&M instead of some other school?
Well, I guess your football coach or people like that have a great influence on your life.
Both two of my football coaches were A&M graduates and had played here on the national championship.
team, and I had offers to go to several other schools, but they thought that A&M was a place I would enjoy, since I loved the outdoors and such as that.
And so through my head football coach, Phoebe Fithian,
He contacted Harry Steitler at Texas A&M and they in turn contacted me and I came to A&M.
Did you come to visit the campus your senior year?
No.
We didn't do that kind of thing.
Did anybody come to call on you?
Yes.
Who came down there?
Coach Steitler.
But those days, a 160-mile trip was a long, enduring trip to take.
Did Coach Steitler promise you anything?
What did he say about A&M and your role at A&M?
Well, it was interesting.
At that point in time, of course, recruitment was something that
these coaches did, but it wasn't, it wasn't nearly as high-pressured as it is now.
It was just that they came and talked to you and wanted to know if you were interested in education and the chance to participate.
And that, that day and time, you didn't sign letters of intent or anything.
You weren't married to the university until you played in your first football game.
And there weren't any movies of the game, so did he ever see you play?
No.
They just took the words of your coaches and
if you, you know, were on an all-district team or something like that.
And what position did you play and what status did you have in the all-district and all-regional and so forth?
Well, I was, and for my day, I was rather large.
I weighed 200 pounds, yet I was...
The coach from the University of Houston, I can't remember his name.
I was playing defense.
We played both ways.
I was playing defensive and offensive tackle.
And also, I played baseball and I ran on track team and lots of other things, as everybody did back in those days.
had turned out to be a fair quarter miler.
And so to weigh 200 pounds and run a quarter mile was considered fair at that time.
Had it been this, in this generation, I would probably have
played quarterback or not a lineman.
A lineman now weighs 300 pounds, so I would have been small.
But I came and there was really not much recruiting to the system.
because we had athletes leave the first month we were here.
They just disappeared and went to other schools.
And I remember Gil Bartosz who went to TCU, he wished he'd never played against A&M.
But we had Ralph, we had several players that just overnight disappeared and ended up at other schools.
Describe your coming up here
to stay, who brought you, what did you bring, how did you get here?
Well, everybody came under the same guise then.
You got a letter that says all you can bring with you is one footlocker.
And so you scrambled around at the Army Surplus and found a footlocker.
I didn't need that big of a, to bring my belongings.
I didn't need a footlocker.
But my mother and dad drove me to College Station for, I guess, maybe the first time.
They put me out over at... Freshmen came in early, so they put me out over by Hart Hall.
That's where athletes live.
And I took my footlocker out of the trunk, set it on the ground, and my mother and daddy left, and my dad said, if you don't like it, well, just come on home.
That's the way we operate.
Nobody in my family has ever been to college in their life and didn't know why you went to college.
And that was about what time of year?
That would have probably been in August of 48, I guess.
And describe, what did you have in that footlocker?
I have, cannot remember anything because... Did you have a suit?
Oh, no.
I didn't even own a suit, no.
No, because we, of course, were furnished our clothes at that time.
Everybody's in court, cadets, and so it's kind of interesting.
We lined up in front of Hart Hall for the first time in uniform, and
But before we did that, we had my roommate and I, he was Denny Hudson from Port Arthur, Texas.
We knew we had to have brass over our uniform to differentiate what outfit we were in.
The person that overlooked all the athletes at that time was Mr. Lupo.
He had the bookstore, and so we went down to Mr. Lupo.
They gave us our books, of course, and so forth, and told him we thought we'd better get some brass for our uniforms.
And so we looked through the assortment of brass,
and we liked the one with the cross sabers best of all and so we bought a Calvary brass and came back and wore it to the first time we had a drill and we were
The athletics at that time was infantry, so we were a little bit out of uniform, but it never did bother us a great deal in the athletic dorm.
Now you said Lupo gave you the books.
Literally, was it a gift?
Well, yeah, I guess it's kind of a gift, but Mr. Lupo, any athlete and perhaps other students that had any difficulties at that time, he was able to help them out financially, I guess.
Describe your introduction to the chow hall, the routine, and the dining hall, and so forth.
Well, we, Hart Hall was on military walks.
We marched into Cebiza Hall, which is at the end of Military Wall, the north end of it.
And during football season, A-Athletics didn't have to do that much drill, but we did always
We ate all of our meals at Hart Hall and we were served, lots of us, by fellow athletes because in those days you didn't, not many people had full scholarships.
They were given a half or a quarter scholarship and then worked their way through in the mess hall.
tuition at that time I remember was $25.
Did you have a full scholarship?
No, partial.
And so when I came, when I came
We had to have $25, which I hated, but, you know, all that came back in a way.
But I just remember it was $25, and then you had your uniforms furnished, and you had your meals furnished, and books furnished.
But I even don't know that we could afford, at that time, that my family could afford the $25.
Do you remember how much spending money you brought with you other than that?
Oh, I doubt if any.
It was a strange transition, to say the least.
And then the academics were quite different from high school, yet must have had a better high school education than I thought.
In fact, the gentleman that taught me literature in high school was, I saw him at my 50th high school reunion.
He's still alive.
And I recited Chaucer to him.
And it just tickled him to death.
And that football player especially would have remembered that.
And I thought it was kind of foolish when I was memorizing those things.
But he taught us to write essays.
about literature and poetry, and then my English teacher was my wife's mother all the way through high school.
So evidently we came out with the ability to speak and write, which if you're going to colleges,
important.
Now you got here before classes started though for fall football.
Yes.
Describe football practice during those first days before the rest of the students got here.
Well football practice
was to me not very much unlike high school.
I mean except we had a, our coach was unusual.
Bones Irving was our coach and freshman coach and so Bones never could remember anybody's name and so you were kind of a number I guess for a long time and then
Now, Harry Statler, the head coach, was entirely different.
Harry remembered everybody's name and knew us until he died.
But we had, at that time you had to play freshman football and so on.
About how many freshmen were there on the team?
Oh, we've got a picture somewhere.
I'm guessing probably 60, 70.
I just don't remember.
I still, we're still very close, all of us.
back in those days what we had to be because as freshmen, we were the only freshmen on campus athletes.
Everybody else lived out at the Bryan Air Force Base.
And so A&M had
probably had an enrollment of about 10,000 at that time, and most of the people on campus were veterans.
And so here we were, 17, 16, 17-year-old kids, competing academically in all our classes with veterans, and it made it rather difficult academically.
But football practice, we just
went down as soon as we got out of class every day.
They tried to arrange our schedule the best they could where we'd be off by two or three o'clock in the afternoon.
We worked out until there was a train, Sunset Limited came through here to Dallas.
So we worked out every day until Sunset Limited came by, which was usually six o'clock.
Then we showered and cleaned up and walked from Kyle Field to Cebisa and ate.
Usually got back in the dorm at eight, nine o'clock at night, probably ate.
Studied if you weren't too tired or too beat up.
And this all started over again about six o'clock in the morning.
Describe how you registered.
for your classes?
Did y'all stand in line?
Seemed like when we were athletes, we were kind of pre-registered.
What I think they, in order for us to get the schedule that we needed to work out, seemed like we were pre-registered, but we didn't have
Didn't have really, wasn't ever much said about majors.
You just, everybody took English and history and the biology and everybody seemed to take about the same thing.
Did you, had you begun to think about what your major would be?
Oh yes, in a way my coach again influenced me.
I thought I wanted to be a coach and he said coaching is very difficult, it's very political, requires long hours and he and I hunted together all the time.
Was this Coach Vithian?
Yes, I had bird dogs and we hunted and my closest friend, Jordan Runnels,
inseparable for all our high school days.
And he said, if you like the outdoors that much, and he said, you ought to be an ag teacher.
But we didn't have ag teachers in our high school.
I don't guess many did back in the, or not the, not the cities.
So I guess I tended to go
He said, if you want to work with kids and all that, so I finally ended up in agricultural education.
Who were some of those, in those first classes, who were some of the teachers that you recall here?
Oh.
Were there some?
Cotton Joe Mockford.
What did he teach?
He taught agronomy.
I had several English teachers, Mr. Eckfeldt, and what you remember about him is he came to class one time and he knew everybody in the class the next time.
I can't...
I can't recall whom I had for math.
Oh, I had Mr. Martin for entomology.
I just, it's very difficult to.
History, biology.
English.
Of course, eventually we had to all take chemistry and physics.
Do you remember who you had there?
Well, I had organic chemistry.
I had step and a half hedges.
For undergraduate chemistry,
The head of the department taught it.
He thought that he ought to teach and teach freshmen, but I can't remember his name for the life of me.
I just can't.
It's too far back.
I can remember all my veterinary professors, but I can't remember my undergraduates.
That first fall, how did you find the academic rigor for you?
You said that your high school had prepared you well.
How did that hold up?
It was, to me, it wasn't that difficult.
Of course, you have to realize that we were all freshmen together, athletes together, and we didn't really have two dogs, but we had people that we were in, kind of helped one another, and I just didn't find it that difficult.
Our football team had a B average, which was, you know, everybody thought that was pretty good.
It would stand up pretty well today, wouldn't it?
Yeah, yeah.
Oh, gosh, we had, let's see, J. Rowe Notaris was valedictorian.
Who?
J. Rowe Notaris, he was valedictorian.
T-A-R-R-U-S?
From El Campo, we had J. Rowan Tardis, Elo Novich, and Glenn Lippman.
And I don't know what they do in El Campo, but J. Rowan Tardis was valedictorian of Texas A&M.
Glenn Lippman was the outstanding and highest grade point in engineering.
And Elo Novitsa was the highest-ranking student in business administration.
And Paul Lemming, well, we just had
For some reason, we just had a bunch of good students.
Now, we had some that pulled us down.
I won't mention their names.
Was there anyone that you and the other athletes would go to, particularly for academic advice?
Yeah, we had an advisor called Dog Dawson.
He and his brother had played football here, and he was about, oh, six, five, a big man.
But he was, if we had any so-called problems, academic or otherwise, Mr. Dawson was our one to contact.
Was he the one that you also would go to regarding what to take the next semester?
We never got, never seemed to be very concerned what we were going to take the next semester because not until we got on into
past our sophomore year, I guess, that we'd have to declare a major and those kind of things.
Did you make some special friends that first year?
Oh yes, many of them were still friends and we still
still act like or think like we did when we were that age, I guess.
We still, as athletes do, they always get better with age and we remember all the good things.
We had a boy on our football team named Kenneth Shove.
We beat the Shorthorns bad in 48.
We beat Texas my senior year.
And the varsity tied them my freshman year, 77, in Memorial Stadium, which was really upsetting to them.
And Darrell Hooper kicked the field goal.
And our senior year of 50, it would have been 51, I guess, to beat them here at Kyle Field.
We had a good athletic program.
We won one track conference championships seven years in a row, but we had Darrell Hooper and Buddy Davis, a good group of athletes.
Buddy Davis set the world record in high jump.
He jumped the first man to ever jump seven feet.
And it was my privilege to know him real well.
I had a letter from him when he was at the Olympics in Helsinki.
And he's from your part of the state also.
Yeah, he's from the Needland, Fort Natchez area.
Hart Hall routine.
Describe your room your freshman year.
What was in that room?
Well, Hart Hall was a different dormitory.
The only one like it on campus, I guess, nearly.
It was built in what they called ramps, and I was in D-8 or D-ramp.
You had, I think Hart was two-story.
If you were in a ramp, you had two adjoining rooms on the first floor and two adjoining rooms on the second floor.
There would be four rooms in the quad.
But anyhow, you had my
Well, you shared a common bathroom between the two rooms in the heart.
So you always call them your crapper buddies or whatever.
Mine happened to turn out to be Mike Griner and Jimmy Flowers.
They were upperclassmen, of course.
Who was your roommate?
Denny Hudson from Port Arthur.
H-U-T or H-U-D?
H-U-D.
Hudson.
Okay.
Anyhow, we were Fish and Max Greiner and Jimmy Flowers were juniors.
The board was still very much a part of A&M culture then.
If Jimmy or Max weren't feeling too well, Max was first sergeant, as a matter of fact, in our outfit.
If we lost a game or they just wasn't feeling well and they had some time on their hands, they'd call the freshman, Dean and I, over and wake us up with the board a little bit.
But they turned out to be some of my closest friends as time went by.
Max died here about six months ago, I guess.
Did you and your roommate have to run errands for those two upperclassmen?
Oh, yeah.
That was just part of it.
They were good guys.
That was just the system.
In the chow hall, did you all have the same kinds of games being played that were played by the other corps outfits?
Not so much to start with.
Of course, there was a difference between fall and spring.
We became more military in the spring after the fall football season was over, but we had the same nomenclature, and we had to sit in the same places as freshmen always did, and we had to serve the upperclassmen first and
and the usual and ask for permission to leave the table or to have our kush or the general routine.
Did y'all have kush questions?
Well, that was, we did have campusology, which
to me was a real bore because there was so much to learn about every building and every object and when it was built and just everything about it.
To me, it took a lot away from my study time for my curriculum.
During the fall semester, describe a typical weekday.
What time did it start?
What did you do when?
Well, there's a difference as to what year you're in, but as freshmen, we normally fell out at, it seemed like we fell out about
We probably had to get up about 6 and you always had to have your bed made up and room cleaned up and you went to chow hall and you ate and you didn't have to come back in formation and you made your classes as your schedule dictated.
And you didn't usually have any, and then you had your practice sessions in the afternoon, and you didn't.
Football practice began about when?
Oh, it seemed like, best I remember, was around 3 o'clock, something like that.
But they, I suppose we were a little bit...
handled a little bit more lenient being in the athletic dorm than the other core dorms.
But I finally, after I was injured in the spring, had to move out of the athletic dorm the next year into a core dorm.
So I got a good example of both, I suppose.
Let's discuss that.
You injured how, when?
Well, I had, in the spring of that year, I had dislocated shoulder and rotator cuff.
And at that time, Blaine and...